when someone says CGI the first thing
that probably pops into your mind is
Michael Bay's transformers or Davy Jones
from Pirates of the Caribbean right well
that's true of course but what you
probably didn't realize is that CGI is
also used in a lot more subtle ways than
you might have missed in your favorite
movies take for example number one Black
Swan 2010 although this is a dramatic
movie it relies quite heavily on CGI
well with all the transformations the
main character goes through all those
black feathers couldn't have grown all
by themselves now could they but there's
another CGI moment that you could have
overlooked Natalie Portman's hands were
artificially and long aided at some
points to make them look more surreal
and creepy and it worked didn't it
number two Star Trek 2009 this sci-fi
blockbuster used a lot of CGI there's no
doubt about that
colorful space battle simply can't be
done without the use of graphics I mean
have you seen any spaceships battling it
out lately
right me neither anyway there's a moment
in the movie that you probably wouldn't
even think with CGI when Curt toys
around with a salt shaker in the shape
of a tiny USS Enterprise he pours a
small stream of salt from it guess where
the CGI is in this yeah it's the digital
salt nothing actually spills from the
shaker it's all graphics hmm maybe the
cast and crew are really superstitious
number three Fear and Loathing in Las
Vegas 1998 could you really expect any
really good CGI effects from a movie
that's 20 years old neither could i but
it seems like we were all stumped when
it comes to this 90s classic you see the
production company wanted Tobey Maguire
to shave his head for the role of a
loony hitchhiker but the actor refused
to do so without any additional
compensation so instead
director Terry Gilliam gave him a bald
cap and at his team of graphic
specialists make CGI hair for Maguire
interestingly enough the cost of making
the digital hair was actually a lot
higher than the money the actor had
demanded for simply shaving his head
know the irony number four
Titanic 1997 well since we're on the
topic of classics from the 90s you can't
forget about the epic love story of Jack
and Rose that had us all bawling our
eyes out it's pretty obvious that CGI at
the time wasn't all that great but
director James Cameron managed to
introduce it so naturally that you
wouldn't believe it was there remember
the part where the water starts flooding
inside the ship yeah well duh how can
you forget right anyway the flood was
added digitally and so seamlessly that
we were all holding our breath while
watching these hectic and super
claustrophobic scenes number five Star
Wars Episode six Return of the Jedi 1983
in the early 80s CGI was nothing but a
dream so how in the world could George
Lucas have modified his movie simply
enough he reissued the motion picture in
2004 for DVD with a bit of tinkering hey
still counts right so what detail could
have possibly made Lucas want to retouch
this sci-fi classic well he wanted to
digitally remove Darth Vader's eyebrows
in the scene where the Dark Lord takes
off his helmet so that it would show the
results of injuries he received in
Revenge of the Sith
now that's attention to detail number 6
the proposal 2009 what CGI could you
possibly expect from a romantic comedy
it turns out quite a lot well in terms
of terrain anyway when Margaret and
Andrew traveled to Sitka Alaska
actors Sandra Bullock and Ryan Reynolds
and the whole production team for that
matter actually stayed in Manchester
Massachusetts the whole movie was filmed
there as a matter of
so to create the image of this
northernmost American state the director
had to add mountains that's right
all the mountain chains you see in the
movie are actually CGI
number seven Ghost Rider
2007 again there's a lot of obvious CGI
in this movie like that flaming skull
sitting on Nicolas Cage's shoulders now
take a closer look at his arms in the
scene where he's staring at himself in
the mirror in disbelief notice anything
missing
well Cage fans will know that the actor
has pretty big tattoos on both of his
upper arms and shoulders but Johnny
Blaze doesn't this discrepancy led film
creators to the decision to remove the
ink digitally using CGI once again
computer graphics were used not to add
something but to make it invisible
instead well at least they did a better
job of it then the guys who removed
henry cavill smush - in 2017 Justice
League number 8 Zodiac 2007 if you've
seen this blood chilling thriller
directed by David Fincher you know it
was filmed in San Francisco except it
wasn't exactly what I mean is that most
of the city including the famous port
was created using cgi Fincher wanted
complete authenticity for his movie so
he basically recreated 1986 San
Francisco from scratch adding so many
effects that the modern city was totally
transformed and it's not just the
skyline either even scenes with actors
talking on the street were all done in
the studio with the help of a blue
screen I don't know about you but that
definitely escaped my radar number 9 Lee
miserab 2012 beautiful costumes
beautiful acting beautiful voices
beautiful everything who would have
thought such a genuine drama could use a
massive amount of computer graphics to
make it look authentic I'm sure you're
now wondering what I'm talking about no
it's not about anything visible once
again the magic of CGI
removed a lot of things from the movie
the entire cast sang live and they
couldn't have done it without
microphones attached to their bodies
guess where those microphones win in
post-production right erased by the
grace of CG an all-powerful thing that
number 10
Dark Shadows 2012 Johnny Depp is
definitely one of those extremely
versatile actors whose transformations
are always a thing to behold in this
movie he plays the role of a 196 year
old vampire Barnabas Collins
well now even a great actor like Depp
couldn't possibly have stopped blinking
for the entire length of the movie
vampires don't blink remember film
director Tim Burton wanted his lead
actor to resemble a real vampire as much
as possible so he asked his technicians
to remove any blink Depp made while
filming I bet that was an exciting day
on the job for the CGI team and of
course they finished in a blink number
Blood Diamond 2006 the phone call that
Archer portrayed by Leonardo DiCaprio
makes two maddie is truly a
heartbreaking saying that can't but
bring tears to your eyes hey no spoilers
just go watch it for yourself if you
haven't yet anyway the audience might
have been crying but the lead actress
definitely wasn't Jennifer Connelly's
tears you see on screen were in fact
added digitally well who needs the real
thing when there's CGI number 12
Brokeback Mountain 2005 now here's a
movie with all kinds of fantastic nature
scenes mountains trees rivers and lots
and lots of sheep can you guess which of
those was added with CGI yep it was all
those wooly grazers well not all of them
but most production actually needed
about 2,500 of them and out of all of
those thousands of sheep only 700 were
real apparently a shepherd's work isn't
as simple as it seems to get all these
animals to act right and to avoid any
accidents the crew decided to add the
to the herd leader using CGI safety
first number 13 Logan 2017 superheroes
are always back with CGI so no surprises
here right well you might have missed
one major detail in an action filled
scene of a car chase we get a good
close-up view of Hugh Jackman's angry
face but it's not his at all it's
actually his stunt double performing the
whole scene with Jackman's face
digitally mapped and cast onto it even
if you look very closely I assure you
you won't be able to see that it's not
the real Jackman sitting there behind
the wheel number 14 the Dark Knight 2008
Christopher Nolan is well known for
using as little CGI as possible an
action-packed movie like The Dark Knight
couldn't of course be completed without
digital effects at all but they were so
subtle that you wouldn't believe it
remember the part where Batman throws
his cables under a semi and it makes a
full 180 degree flip right there on the
road well that actually happened it
wasn't a CG 18-wheeler but instead of
risking it and hoping that the steel
cables would really work a crazy thing
in the first place
the production team placed a huge piston
in the road and launched it just as the
truck was passing over it the piston was
then removed using CGI clever huh so
bright siders do you know of any other
subtle cgi masterpieces out there share
them in the comments below if you were
as surprised to find out these things as
I was then give this video a like share
it with your friends and click that
subscribe button to stay on the bright
side of life